Welcome back.
We want to improve our program so that instead of just sending a generic email like this I want to customize
it to each individual.
Imagine if we have a database of all these users all their e-mails as well as their first name.
Ideally we're able to customize the e-mail to each specific person.
So how can we do that.
Well we're going to use an ace CML based e-mail so we can send text e-mails which just have text like
we've seen or we can send something more dynamic like HMO.
Now this isn't an HMO of course and it's something that will go into a little bit more in-depth when
we talk about web development but in here I have a very very basic HMO document and this HMO document
just has a body where we want the content of our e-mail to be now in here.
I wrote you just won so much money and then with a dollar sign me you can write whatever you want in
here.
But I want you to pay attention to the dollar sign because we're going to do something neat here.
We're going to actually update this to reflect a variable a python variable that we can substitute and
customize dynamically.
Now how are we going to do that well if we go back to our e-mail.
I want to introduce you to two new packages built in packages in Python that we can use.
One is called the template or string template.
So from the string module we can import
and what this template does if we go to the documentation right here we have a string dot template class.
And what we're allowed to do is as you can see here using the dollar sign
we can substitute the variables inside of text.
You can see over here there if we zoom in a little bit we have a template object with who likes what.
And we can substitute these dollar signs deals with who.
So who equals to Tim we can do template who likes what he to us and then substitute who with Tim and
what with Kapow.
So this is gonna be very very useful and this is what we're doing with index that HMO.
We have a dollar sign name and ideally we're able to update this but we have a problem here.
This is a well that's an HMO file.
It's an index dot HCM alpha.
So how can we read this converted to a template and substitute it.
Well we have another module that we're going to import and this is going to be called Path lib from
path
so this path lib and this path that we import is actually very similar to something we've seen before
which is OS dot path.
So we could have also imported the operating system OS module and use the path method because what it
allows us to do is to access this index that 80 mile file.
So this is what it's going to look like we can have an HMO variable that equals path and then give it
index start HMO because we're in the same folder and this path now gives us access to index that HMO
and we can use the read text method on it to read it as a text as a string.
Now I'm going to leave a resource as to why we want to use path lib instead of OS stop path mainly because
we have this read text method but there's a great article here why you should be using path lib versus
the OS path module that I'll link to and you can read on your own at the end of the day though both
of these libraries will be useful and there's no right or wrong just pros and cons so we have this string
but now we want to update so that the name variable will be something custom.
So what we're going to do is wrap this and template so it becomes a template object.
That's it.
So we have this a Schimmel that is a template.
And if you remember once we have this template string we can use the dot substitute to give it.
Well while we want to substituted with so instead of setting content like this instead I'm going to
change this and say I want to Ayesha Mel dot substitute
to equal name which is remember the variable over here to have it equal.
Let's go with Tintin and by the way this substitute can have multiple parameters so we can do it with
keyword arguments or we can even do it as a dictionary like this so we can say name will be Tintin and
then we can add multiple variables if this Asian male file had multiple variables multiple maybe name
age maybe a greeting whatever we want.
So let's leave it like that let's safe here and see if this works.
I'm going to send once again and this time around I want to actually send it to my email account so
we'll actually blur this out so you don't see my personal email address.
All right.
All good boss.
It looks like we didn't get any years.
Now let's check my e-mail account.
A look at that under important and unread mind you.
For you you might get it in your spam folder.
I have an e-mail for myself saying Hey I just one thousand dollars
and the last thing we need to do when we substitute is we have to tell it hey this set content is going
to be HMO.
So the way we do that is in the second parameter we say this is going to be HMO.
So it's not text like it was before.
It's going to be a sham also pass it accordingly and set content accordingly.
So if I save this and we run
looks like we didn't get any errors.
That's good and if we go back to the G.M. client Hey looks like I have a message that I've won a million
dollars.
That's really great.
Mind you for yourself.
You might find this in your spam folder.
So again make sure you check your e-mail.
Otherwise if I click on this look at that you just won so much money.
Tintin how cool is that so just like that we're able to programmatically send e-mails customized e-mails.
Now there's many applications of this.
Maybe anytime a customer buys a product from your company you want to send them a personal e-mail a
greeting saying hey thanks for buying our product.
Or maybe you want to get yourself a reminder where every morning you send your cell phone e-mail saying
hey get up and tidy your bed.
There are so many applications.
This is the cool part about Python right.
You can do anything you want.
The world is your oyster.
So hopefully this was exciting because we have a lot more than the next video.
Bobby.